# Telegram Scripts for OpenWrt

This is a set of scripts with a plugins API written in bash, you can use it to manage and get informations on OpenWRT Routers.

### How its works ?

First of all, 
Make a bot for you !
https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#authorizing-your-bot

With the bot created, you need to replace "[PUT YOUR BOT KEY HERE]" in variables  file with your bot key.

Second, you need to send a initial message to your bot in Telegram App.
After you send the message, in the OpenWRT run this:

``` curl -s -k -X GET https://api.telegram.org/bot<YOUR BOT ID>/getUpdates | grep -oE "\"id\":[[:digit:]]+" | head -n1 | awk -F : '{print $2}'```

Get the number and replace "[PUT ID OF THE CHAT THAT YOU START WITH BOT]" in the variables file.

### Directory structure

```
+--- LICENSE
+--- README.md
+--- init.d/
	+--- lanports
	+--- telegram_bot
+--- lanports
+--- plugins/
	+--- block
	+--- fwlist
	+--- gethosts
	+--- getip
	+--- help/
		+--- block
		+--- fwlist
		+--- gethosts
		+--- getip
		+--- getwifi
		+--- start
		+--- unblock
		+--- wifilist
	+--- start
	+--- unblock
	+--- wifilist
+--- telebot
+--- telegram\_bot
```
#### lanports file

This file reads the router logs with the logread -f command, and sends messages via bot telegram if a router port is turned off / on or the router delivers an IP address via DHCP.

#### init.d directory

Contains the necessary files for the scripts to be started at the router boot, just move them to the /etc/init.d/ of the router and run:
/etc/init.d/lanports enable
/etc/init.d/telegram_bot enable

And then:

/etc/init.d/lanports start
/etc/init.d/telegram_bot start

#### plugins directory

This is the main directory, it contains all the commands that the telegram bot can execute.

There are some pre-built commands, which are:

 * Block: Creates a REJECT rule for a host (by macaddr) to make NAT for the internet.
 * Fwlist: Lists all firewall rules.
 * Gethosts: Lists the hosts that are in dhcp.leases, if the argument is a host, will list only the host found by regex.
 * Getip: WAN IP.
 * Start: Creates command help.
 * Unblock: Removes a firewall rule created by Telegram, without an argument, all rules created by Telegram are deleted.
 * Wifilist: List all devices connected to WiFi.

#### help directory inside plugins

This is the directory containing the help files, with the same name as the command, to be displayed by the start command.

#### telebot file

This file sends the telegram bot messages generated by lanports


#### telegram_bot

The telegram_bot script is a loop that receives the updates every second and checks to see if there is a command to execute. If there is a command, the script checks to see if there is a file with the same name as the command inside the plugins directory and runs it, if it exists. The output of the executed script is sent as a response message from the command.
Inside the plugins directory, there is the special command "start", which returns a message with the commands and a brief help on each command.
For this command to work properly, you need to create a file inside the plugins / help directory, with the name equal to the command.


